
NAME

  Getting started with WolfMUD

DESCRIPTION

  This document describes details for getting started with WolfMUD using one
  of the binary downloads.

  If you downloaded one of the source code downloads please see the file
  compiling-from-source.txt

BINARY DOWNLOADS (LINUX)

  If you have downloaded one of the binary downloads for Linux you first need
  to open a terminal window. Then change to the directory where you unpacked
  WolfMUD and run the server binary. Assuming you unpacked WolfMUD into your
  home directory:

    cd ~/WolfMUD
    ./server

  To connect to the server as a player you can use a TELNET client provided by
  you Linux distribution. To connect as a player open a terminal and use the
  command:

    telnet 127.0.0.1 4001

  You should now be connected to your WolfMUD server.

BINARY DOWNLOADS (ARM)

  There are two different binary downloads for Linux on ARM. The arm5 binary
  should be suitable for all ARM processors, although it will be slower than a
  build specific to the ARM processor in use as it does floating point
  computations in software. The arm6 download should be suitable for ARM
  processors with hardware floating point including the Raspberry Pi. For more
  information see:

    http://code.google.com/p/go-wiki/wiki/GoArm

  For the both arm5 and arm6 binary downloads follow the directions given in
  the section BINARY DOWNLOADS (LINUX).

BINARY DOWNLOADS (WINDOWS)

  If you have downloaded one of the binary downloads for Windows simply double
  click the file server.exe to start the server.

  To connect to the server as a player you can use a TELNET client such as the
  one provided with Windows. To connect as a player open a command prompt by
  selecting:

    Start -> Windows System -> Command Prompt

  Alternatively press Win+R to open the run dialog. Enter cmd in the open
  field and select the OK button.

  In the window that opens type the command:

    telnet 127.0.0.1 4001

  You should now be connected to your WolfMUD server.

  Note, if you're running windows Vista or later, you need to enable telnet
  by going to the control panel, clicking "programs" or "programs and features"
  and then "turn Windows features on or off". A "Windows features" dialog
  should appear. Find the "telnet client" option, check it and click OK.
  Enabling telnet may take a while and may require you to reboot your computer.

ALLOWING OTHER MACHINES TO CONNECT

  By default the server will only be listening on localhost, IP address
  127.0.0.1, and will only allow client connections from the local machine.

  If you wish to allow connections from remote machines you will need to
  update the file data/config.wrj with your machine's IP address.

  For example if the IP address of the machine running the server is
  172.16.1.1 we would update the file data/config.wrj and edit the line:

    Server.Host: 127.0.0.1

  We would change this line to:

    Server.Host: 172.16.1.1

  To connect to the server we would have to use the new IP address in our
  telnet command as well:

    telnet 172.16.1.1 4001

SEE ALSO

  configuration-file.txt, running-the-server.txt, compiling-from-source.txt

COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2017 Andrew 'Diddymus' Rolfe. All rights reserved.

  Use of this source code is governed by the license in the LICENSE file
  included with the source code.

