
NAME

  upgrading - some notes on upgrading from one release of WolfMUD to the next

DESCRIPTION

  ++ PLEASE READ ALL OF THIS DOCUMENT BEFORE UPGRADING YOUR WolfMUD SERVER. ++

  This document describes steps to take when upgrading WolfMUD to a new
  release so as not to lose player files, customised or modified zones files
  or configuration changes.

  The important directory is the data directory which contains the server
  configuration, zone files and player files.

  It is important to back it up or copy your data directory somewhere safe.
  For most installations simply renaming the WolfMUD directory to WolfMUD.old
  is sufficient to back up everything.

  Once the new version of WolfMUD is installed you can delete, or rename for
  later reference, the default data directory and replace it with the backup
  or copy you made of your own data directory.

  If any files need to be upgraded, for example new settings in the
  configuration file or new fields in player or zone files, the server will
  check the files when the server is started and perform upgrades as required.

  Additionally you may want to use a file comparison tool to compare the
  default configuration file and/or zone files with your versions for changes.

WOLFMUD DIRECTORY

  In versions of WolfMUD prior to v0.0.18 the main WolfMUD directory would
  have been WolfMUD.git for source downloads or Git clones of the repository.
  From v0.0.18 onwards the directory will be WolfMUD. After upgrading you are
  advised to rename the WolfMUD.git directory to WolfMUD in order to ease
  future updates.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

  In versions of WolfMUD prior to v0.0.18 it was necessary to set the
  environment variable WOLFMUD_DIR when using the source downloads or a clone
  of the Git repository. For standard default installations this is no longer
  required. WOLFMUD_DIR only needs to be set for custom configurations.

  For details on WOLFMUD_DIR see the section ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES in the file
  running-the-server.txt in the docs directory.

SEE ALSO

  running-the-server.txt, compiling-from-source.txt

COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2017 Andrew 'Diddymus' Rolfe. All rights reserved.

  Use of this source code is governed by the license in the LICENSE file
  included with the source code.

