
NAME

  *.wrj - WolfMUD Record Jar file format

DESCRIPTION

  This document describes the record jar format used by WolfMUD. Files
  formatted using the record jar format have the file extension .wrj and are
  plain text files that may include Unicode.

  A record jar file consists of one or more records delimited by a record
  separator. Each record may contain comments, fields and a free text block.

  An example record jar file consisting of three records:


    // Copyright 2016 Andrew 'Diddymus' Rolfe. All rights reserved.
    //
    // Use of this file is governed by the license in the LICENSE file
    // included with the source code.
    %%
          Ref: ZINARA
         Zone: City of Zinara
       Author: Andrew 'Diddymus' Rolfe

    This is the city of Zinara.
    %%
          Ref: L1
        Start:
         Name: Fireplace
      Aliases: TAVERN FIREPLACE
        Exits: E→L3 SE→L4 S→L2
    Inventory: L1N1

    You are in the corner of the common room in the dragon's breath tavern. A
    fire burns merrily in an ornate fireplace, giving comfort to weary
    travellers. The fire causes shadows to flicker and dance around the room,
    changing darkness to light and back again. To the south the common room
    continues and east the common room leads to the tavern entrance.
    %%


COMMENTS

  Comment lines are those that start with two forward slash characters '//'.
  Comments may be indented using whitespace.

BLANK LINES

  Blank lines are only allowed in a record to signify the start of a free text
  block or within a free text block itself.

RECORD SEPARATOR

  Records are separated by a line containing only two percent symbols '%%'.
  Record separators may be indented using whitespace, although this is rarely
  done. The final record separator for the last record in a record jar may be
  omitted.

FIELDS

  A field consists of a single word name followed by a single colon ':'. The
  name may be indented using whitespace. The colon may be followed by optional
  data. Field names are case insensitive and must not contain whitespace.

  Whitespace is allowed between the colon and data to aid readability.

  Data following the colon may span multiple lines. Subsequent lines may be
  indented using leading whitespace.

  Depending on the field name the format of the associated data may have
  special requirements.

FREE TEXT BLOCK

  A record may contain an optional free text block. The start of a free text
  block is signified by a single blank line. If a record contains a free text
  block only the leading blank line may be omitted:

  %%
  This is a free text block.
  %%

  Any leading whitespace and any blank lines in a free text block will be
  preserved.

SEE ALSO

  configuration-file.txt, zone-files.txt

COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2017 Andrew 'Diddymus' Rolfe. All rights reserved.

  Use of this source code is governed by the license in the LICENSE file
  included with the source code.

